BOM.md, before:


# Bill Of Materials 

## US Suppliers

This is a list of parts from US suppliers with < 1 week shpping times.
These are (mostly) the exact SKUs I purchased when designing and building
the raceway.  Prices are accurate as of when I ordered the, but may have
changes since.  In many cases, I purchased kits with multiple connectors or parts to experiment with.  Not counting "consumables" like screws, nuts, wire and wiring connectors, two 4-lane tracks can be built with readily availale parts for about $140.  If you're willing to wait for shipping from China, you could obtain the same parts for under $90.  All prices include shipping, but not taxes.  Note: I'm an Amazon Prime member, non Prime members may incur additional shipping costs."

| Item | # | Each | Total | Vendor |
| :--- | :---     | ---: | ---:  | :---   |
| **Starting Gates** | |  |  |  |
| Raspberry Pi Zero W[H] | 2 | $14.95 | $29.90 | https://www.pishop.us/product/raspberry-pi-zero-wireless-wh-pre-soldered-header/ |
| 1.3" LCD Display Hat | 2 | $17.28 | $34.56 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07FDQVYFM |
| Zero Prototyping pHAT | 2 | $6.95 | $13.90 | https://www.pishop.us/product/zero-prototyping-phat-zero/ |
| TCRT5000  IR Reflective Sensor Modules | 8 | (10 for 12.99) | $12.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B081RPJ44L |
| MG90S Servo | 2 | (2 for 9.99) | $9.99 | https://www.amazon.com/Maxmoral-Upgraded-Digital-Vehicle-Helicopter/dp/B07NV476P7 |
| **Finish Lines** | |  |  |  |
| ESP32 ESP-32S Development Board  | 2 | (2 for 14.89) | $14.89 | https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07Q576VWZ/ |
| 4-Channel IR Line Tracking Sensor Module | 2 | $4.39 | $8.78 | https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07Q2HRXN4 |
| **Assembly** | |  |  |  |
| M4-0.7 Metal Threaded Heat Set Screw Inserts | 1 |  | 9.99 | https://www.ebay.com/itm/292173878339 |
| M4 x 0.7mm SS Nylon Lock Nuts | 1 |  | $5.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B075ZZD3NN |
| M4 x 0.7 x 10 SS Flat Head Socket Cap Screws | 1 |  | $7.46 | https://www.ebay.com/itm/222695733073 |
| M4 x 0.7 x 10 SS Allen Head Socket Cap Screws | 1 |  | $8.05 | https://www.ebay.com/itm//152158936608 |
| M2.5 Standoff Kit Brass | 1 |  | $18.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B06XX28ZZR |
| **Tools and Wiring** | | | |
| Crimping Tool Kit w/ Dupont & JST-XH Connectors | 1 |  | $29.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07ZK5F8HP |
| SN-01BM Crimping Tool | 1 |  | $22.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00YGLKBSK |
| 10 feet ribbon cable | 1 |  | $6.86 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007R9SQQM |
| Right Angle JST XA-SMT connectors | 10 |  | $15.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B085QLMZMP |

## Cost Optimized

| Item | # | Each | Total | Vendor |
| :--- | :---     | ---: | ---:  | :---   |
| **Starting Gates** | |  |  |  |
| **Finish Lines** | |  |  |  |
| **Assembly** | |  |  |  |
| **Tools and Wiring** | | | |

Commit message:

Added Quick Start Guide.  Updated BOM with right-angle connectors.

BOM.md, after:


# Bill Of Materials 

## US Suppliers

This is a list of parts from US suppliers with < 1 week shpping times.
These are (mostly) the exact SKUs I purchased when designing and building
the raceway.  Prices are accurate as of when I ordered the, but may have
changes since.  In many cases, I purchased kits with multiple connectors
or parts to experiment with.  Not counting "consumables" like screws,
nuts, wire and wiring connectors, two 4-lane tracks can be built with
readily availale parts for about $140.  If you're willing to wait for
shipping from China, you could obtain the same parts for under $90.
All prices include shipping, but not taxes.  Note: I'm an Amazon Prime
member, non Prime members may incur additional shipping costs."

| Item | # | Each | Total | Vendor |
| :--- | :---     | ---: | ---:  | :---   |
| **Starting Gates** | |  |  |  |
| Raspberry Pi Zero W[H] | 2 | $14.95 | $29.90 | https://www.pishop.us/product/raspberry-pi-zero-wireless-wh-pre-soldered-header/ |
| 1.3" LCD Display Hat | 2 | $17.28 | $34.56 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07FDQVYFM |
| Zero Prototyping pHAT | 2 | $6.95 | $13.90 | https://www.pishop.us/product/zero-prototyping-phat-zero/ |
| TCRT5000  IR Reflective Sensor Modules | 8 | (10 for 12.99) | $12.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B081RPJ44L |
| MG90S Servo | 2 | (2 for 9.99) | $9.99 | https://www.amazon.com/Maxmoral-Upgraded-Digital-Vehicle-Helicopter/dp/B07NV476P7 |
| **Finish Lines** | |  |  |  |
| ESP32 ESP-32S Development Board  | 2 | (2 for 14.89) | $14.89 | https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07Q576VWZ/ |
| 4-Channel IR Line Tracking Sensor Module | 2 | $4.39 | $8.78 | https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07Q2HRXN4 |
|  2.54 MM Right Angled IDC Receptacle - 2 Position | 2 | $0.54 | $1.08 | https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w-rth-elektronik/661002152222/10239727 |
|  2.54 MM Right Angled IDC Receptacle - 5 Position | 2 | $0.76 | $1.52 | https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/w-rth-elektronik/661005152222/10239742 |
|  IDC Receptacle Shipping |   |       | $4.99 | |
| **Assembly** | |  |  |  |
| M4-0.7 Metal Threaded Heat Set Screw Inserts | 1 |  | 9.99 | https://www.ebay.com/itm/292173878339 |
| M4 x 0.7mm SS Nylon Lock Nuts | 1 |  | $5.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B075ZZD3NN |
| M4 x 0.7 x 10 SS Flat Head Socket Cap Screws | 1 |  | $7.46 | https://www.ebay.com/itm/222695733073 |
| M4 x 0.7 x 10 SS Allen Head Socket Cap Screws | 1 |  | $8.05 | https://www.ebay.com/itm//152158936608 |
| M2.5 Standoff Kit Brass | 1 |  | $18.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B06XX28ZZR |
| **Tools and Wiring** | | | |
| Crimping Tool Kit w/ Dupont & JST-XH Connectors | 1 |  | $29.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07ZK5F8HP |
| SN-01BM Crimping Tool | 1 |  | $22.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00YGLKBSK |
| 10 feet ribbon cable | 1 |  | $6.86 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007R9SQQM |
| Right Angle JST XA-SMT connectors | 10 |  | $15.99 | https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B085QLMZMP |

## Cost Optimized

| Item | # | Each | Total | Vendor |
| :--- | :---     | ---: | ---:  | :---   |
| **Starting Gates** | |  |  |  |
| **Finish Lines** | |  |  |  |
| **Assembly** | |  |  |  |
| **Tools and Wiring** | | | |
